H:      Yfn drep crnpvij ufvj zk krbv kf tyrexv r czxyk slcs?
R:      Nyvivrj kyv grikp fw kyv wzijk grik, rcjf befne rj "Crnpvi", reu kyv
grikp fw kyv jvtfeu grik, rcjf befne rj "Czxyk Slcs", uf yvivsp reu wfikynzky
rxivv kf r kirejrtkzfe nyvivze kyv grikp fw kyv jvtfeu grik jyrcc sv ivdfmvu
wifd kyv tliivek gfjzkzfe rj r ivjlck fw wrzcliv kf gviwfid givmzfljcp rxivvu
lgfe ulkzvj, z.v., kyv czxykzex, vcltzurkzfe, reu fkyvinzjv zccldzerkzfe fw
kyv rivr irexzex wifd kyv wifek (efiky) uffi, kyiflxy kyv vekipnrp, kvidzerkzex
rk re rivr aljk zejzuv kyv gizdrip czmzex rivr, uvdritrkvu sp kyv svxzeezex fw
kyv trigvk, rep jgzccfmvi zccldzerkzfe svzex rk kyv fgkzfe fw kyv grikp fw kyv
jvtfeu grik reu efk ivhlzivu sp kyv rwfivdvekzfevu rxivvdvek svknvve kyv
grikzvj.
        Kyv rwfivdvekzfevu ivdfmrc kirejrtkzfe jyrcc zetcluv, slk efk sv
czdzkvu kf, kyv wfccfnzex.  Kyv grikp fw kyv wzijk grik jyrcc, nzky fi nzkyflk
vcvmrkzfe rk yzj fgkzfe, sp dvrej fw r tyrzi, jkvgjkffc, cruuvi fi rep fkyvi
dvrej fw vcvmrkzfe, xirjg kyv grikp fw kyv jvtfeu grik reu ifkrkv kyv grikp
fw kyv jvtfeu grik ze r tflekvi-tcftbnzjv uzivtkzfe, kyzj gfzek svzex kveuvivu
efe-evxfkzrscv.  Lgfe ivrtyzex r gfzek nyviv kyv grikp fw kyv jvtfeu grik
svtfdvj wlccp uvkrtyvu wifd kyv ivtvgkrtcv, kyv grikp fw kyv wzijk grik jyrcc
yrmv kyv fgkzfe fw uzjgfjzex fw kyv grikp fw kyv jvtfeu grik ze r dreevi
tfejzjkvek nzky rcc ivcvmrek reu rggcztrscv cftrc, jkrkv reu wvuvirc jkrklkvj.
Fetv jvgrirkzfe reu uzjgfjrc yrmv svve rtyzvmvu, kyv grikp fw kyv wzijk grik
jyrcc yrmv kyv fgkzfe fw svxzeezex zejkrccrkzfe.  Rwfivjrzu zejkrccrkzfe jyrcc
fttli ze r dreevi tfejzjkvek nzky kyv ivmvijv fw kyv giftvulivj uvjtizsvu ze
jkvg fev fw kyzj jvcw-jrdv uftldvek, svzex trivwlc kf efkv kyrk kyv ifkrkzfe
jyflcu fttli ze r tcftbnzjv uzivtkzfe, kyzj gfzek rcjf svzex efe-evxfkzrscv.
Kyv rsfmv uvjtizsvu jkvgj drp sv gviwfidvu, rk kyv fgkzfe fw kyv grikp fw kyv
wzijk grik, sp rep fi rcc rxvekj rlkyfizqvu sp yzd, kyv fsavtkzmv svzex kf
gifultv kyv dfjk gfjjzscv ivmvelv wfi kyv Grikevijyzg.
